Since gold in Minecraft has no good
variations like stairs or slabs for
building, I often find myself using
other blocks like bamboo to represent
gold. Sometimes I mix in horn coral
blocks for some roughness or yellow
glazed terracotta to get that sort of
chiseled look. But what I find really
funny is that all of those blocks are
actually more valuable than gold itself
in my super flat world. Gold is one of
the only ore blocks I can get in super
flat because I have access to the
Nether. And you can easily make AFKable
gold farms to get huge amounts.
Meanwhile, bamboo was impossible to get
at all until trial chambers added bamboo
planks to some loot chests. But it's
still non-renewable because I can't get
the actual bamboo plant. So, I have to
do tons of dungeon crawling to get it.
Even harder is the coral, which I can
only buy from Wani T whenever he decides
to sell it. He only shows up every 4 and
1 half hours of play time on average,
and he has a ton of different trades, so
getting horn coral specifically is very
rare, and you can only buy a few blocks
at a time. And then there's the glazed
terracotta, which has to be traded for.
That means you need to roll for a mason
villager that sells the exact block you
want out of 32 glazed and non-glazed
options. And to even unlock the
terracotta trade, each villager needs to
be leveled up to expert. So, prepare to
waste a lot of emeralds. That's if you
don't want to go through the process of
converting dirt into mud, into clay,
into terracotta, and then dying it
yellow. I made a farm to do all that
converting for me and I built that as
well as all the cool stuff you saw in
this short in the related